= acts_as_indexed

If you find this plugin useful, please consider a donation to show your
support!

http://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_send-money

Paypal address: mailto:dougal.s@gmail.com


== Instructions

This plugin allows boolean-queried fulltext search to be added to any Rails
app with no dependencies and minimal setup.


== Resources

=== Install

==== Rails 2.x.x
  ./script/plugin install git://github.com/dougal/acts_as_indexed.git

==== Rails 3.x.x
  rails plugin install git://github.com/dougal/acts_as_indexed.git

==== As a Gem
Despite this being slightly against the the original ethos of the project,
acts_as_indexed is now available as a Gem as several people have requested it.

  gem install acts_as_indexed

Make sure to specify the Gem in your environment.rb file (Rails 2.x.x), or the
Gemfile (Rails 3.x.x).

==== No Git?

If you don't have git installed, but still want the plugin, you can download
the plugin from the GitHub page (http://github.com/dougal/acts_as_indexed) and
unpack it into the <tt>vendor/plugins</tt> directory of your rails app.

=== Upgrade

When upgrading to a new version of acts_as_indexed it is recommended you
delete the index directory and allow it to be rebuilt.


== Usage

=== Setup

Add +acts_as_indexed+ to the top of any models you want to index, along with a
list of the fields you wish to be indexed.

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_indexed :fields => [:title, :body]

    ...
  end

The fields are not limited to model fields, but can be any instance method of
the current model.

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_indexed :fields => [:address, :fullname]

    def fullname
      self.firstname + ' ' + self.lastname
    end

    ...
  end

Any of the configuration options in the Further Configuration section can be
added as to the acts_as_indexed method call. These will override any defaults
or global configuration.

You can specify proc that needs to evaluate to true before the item gets
indexed. This is useful if you only want items with a certain state to be
included. The Proc is passed the current object's instance so you are able to
test against that.

For example, if you have a visible column that is false if the post is hidden,
or true if it is visible, you can filter the index by doing:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_indexed :fields => [:title, :body], :if => Proc.new { |post| post.visible? }
    ...
  end

=== Searching

==== With Relevance

To search with the most relevant matches appearing first, call the
+find_with_index+ method on your model, passing a query as the first argument.
The optional +ids_only+ parameter, when set to true, will return only the IDs
of any matching records.

  # Returns array of Post objects ordered by relevance.
  my_search_results = Post.find_with_index('my search query')

  # Pass any of the ActiveRecord find options to the search.
  my_search_results = Post.find_with_index('my search query',{:limit => 10}) # return the first 10 matches.

  # Returns array of IDs ordered by relevance.
  my_search_results = Post.find_with_index('my search query',{},{:ids_only => true}) # =>  [12,19,33...

==== Without Relevance (Scope)

If the relevance of the results is not important, call the +with_query+ named
scope on your model, passing a query as an argument.

  # Returns array of Post objects.
  my_search_results = Post.with_query('my search query')

  # Chain it with any number of ActiveRecord methods and named_scopes.
  my_search_results = Post.public.with_query('my search query').find(:all, :limit => 10) # return the first 10 matches which are public.

=== Query Options

The following query operators are supported:

* AND :: This is the default option. 'cat dog' will find records matching 'cat' AND 'dog'.
* NOT :: 'cat -dog' will find records matching 'cat' AND NOT 'dog'
* INCLUDE :: 'cat +me' will find records matching 'cat' and 'me', even if 'me' is smaller than the +min_word_size+
* "" :: Quoted terms are matched as phrases. '"cat dog"' will find records matching the whole phrase. Quoted terms can be preceded by the NOT operator; 'cat -"big dog"' etc. Quoted terms can include words shorter than the +min_word_size+.
* ^ :: Terms that begin with ^ will match records that contain a word starting with the term. '^cat' will find matches containing 'cat', 'catapult', 'caterpillar' etc.
* ^"" :: A quoted term that begins with ^ matches any phrase that begin with this phrase. '^"cat d"' will find records matching the whole phrases "cat dog" and "cat dinner". This type of search is useful for autocomplete inputs.

=== Pagination

==== With Relevance

Pagination is supported via the +paginate_search+ method whose first argument is the search query, followed all the standard will_paginate arguments.

  @images = Image.paginate_search('girl', :page => 1, :per_page => 5)

==== Without Relevance (Scope)

Since +with_query+ is a named scope, WillPaginate can be used in the normal
fashion.

  @images = Image.with_query('girl').paginate(:page => 1, :per_page => 5)

=== Further Configuration

A config block can be provided in your environment files or initializers.
Example showing changing the min word size:

  ActsAsIndexed.configure do |config|
    config.min_word_size = 3
    # More config as required...
  end

A full rundown of the available configuration options can be found in
<tt>lib/acts_as_indexed/configuration.rb</tt>

=== Heroku Support

Acts As Indexed now supports Heroku out-of-the-box. When a non-writeable root
directory is detected, the index will be created in the tmp directory.

== RDoc Documentation

To generate the RDoc documentation, run the <tt>rake rdoc</tt> task in the
acts_as_indexed plugin folder. Then point your web browser at
<tt>vendor/plugins/acts_as_indexed/rdoc/index.html</tt>.

Alternatively, you can view the rdoc documentation
online[http://rdoc.info/projects/dougal/acts_as_indexed/].


== Problems, Comments, Suggestions?

All of the above are most welcome. mailto:dougal.s@gmail.com


== Contributors

* Douglas F Shearer - http://douglasfshearer.com
* Thomas Pomfret
* Philip Arndt
* Fernanda Lopes
* Alex Coles
* Myles Eftos
* Edward Anderson

== Future Releases

Future releases will be looking to add the following features:
* Optional html scrubbing during indexing.
* Ranking affected by field weightings.
* Support for DataMapper, Sequel and the various MongoDB ORMs.
* UTF-8 support. See the current solution in the following Gist:
  https://gist.github.com/193903bb4e0d6e5debe1
